Add StarChat alpha blog post (#1086)
huggingface/blog: starchat-alpha.md

---

> title: "Creating a Coding Assistant with StarCoder"

Author: I'm not 100% sold on the title, so happy to change it if someone has better ideas :)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "StarChat: Creating a Coding Assistant with StarCoder"
```

Author: sgtm!

The assistant is happy to help with code questions, and will do its best to understand exactly what is needed.
It also tries to avoid giving false or misleading information, and it caveats when it isn’t entirely sure about the right answer.
That said, the assistant is practical and really does its best, and doesn’t let caution get too much in the way of being useful.

The Starcoder models are a series of 15.5B parameter models trained on 80+ programming languages from The Stack (v1.2) (excluding opt-out requests).
The model uses Multi Query Attention, was trained using the Fill-in-the-Middle objective and with 8,192 tokens context window for a trillion tokens of heavily deduplicated data.

-----

Human: Write a function that takes two lists and returns a list that has alternating elements from each input list.

Assistant: Sure. Here is a function that does that.

```python
def alternating(list1, list2):
   results = []
   for i in range(len(list1)):
       results.append(list1[i])
       results.append(list2[i])
   return results
```

Human: Can you write some test cases for this function?

Assistant: Sure, here are some tests.

```python

> assert alternating([10, 20, 30], [1, 2, 3]) == [10, 1, 20, 2, 30, 3]

Reviewer 2: we started with a ``` for the prompt and open a new ```python one

> assert alternating([10, 20, 30], [1, 2, 3]) == [10, 1, 20, 2, 30, 3]

Author: good idea!

                current_idx += 1

dialogue = "<|user|>\nHello, can you help me?<|end|>\n<|assistant|>\nSure, what can I do for you?<|end|>\n"
input_ids = tokenizer(dialogue).input_ids
labels = input_ids.copy()
mask_user_labels(tokenizer, labels)
labels
```

```
[-100, -100, -100, -100, -100, -100, -100, -100, -100, -100, -100, 49153, 203, 69, 513, 30, 2769, 883, 439, 745, 436, 844, 49, 49155, 203]
```

These special tokens have embeddings that will need to be learned during the fine-tuning process. Let’s take a look at what’s involved.

## Fine-tuning StarCoder with DeepSpeed ZeRO-3

The StarCoder and StarCoderBase models contain 16B parameters, which naively means we’ll need quite a lot of GPU vRAM to fine-tune them — for instance, simply loading the model weights in full FP32 precision requires around 60GB vRAM! Fortunately, there are a few options available to deal with large models like this:

- Use parameter-efficient techniques like LoRA which freeze the base model’s weights and insert a small number of learnable parameters. You can find many of these techniques in the [🤗 PEFT]([https://github.com/huggingface/peft](https://github.com/huggingface/peft)) library.

> - Shard the model weights, optimizer states, and gradients across multiple devices using methods like [DeepSpeed ZeRO-3]([https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/main_classes/deepspeed](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/main_classes/deepspeed)) or [FSDP]([https://pytorch.org/blog/introducing-pytorch-fully-sharded-data-parallel-api/](https://pytorch.org/blog/introducing-pytorch-fully-sharded-data-parallel-api/)).

Reviewer 2: link

Since DeepSpeed is tightly integrated in 🤗 Transformers, we’ll use it to train our model. To get started, first clone BigCode’s `starcoder` repo from GitHub and navigate to the `chat` directory:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/bigcode-project/starcoder.git
cd starcoder/chat
```

Next, create a Python virtual environment using e.g. Conda:

```shell
conda create -n starchat python=3.10 && conda activate starchat
```

> Next, install PyTorch v1.13.1. Since this hardware-dependent, we direct you to the PyTorch Installation Page for this step. Once you've installed it, install the rest of the project dependencies:

Author: good catch - i'll fix it to use "we" consistently

```shell
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

> You'll also need to be logged into both your Hugging Face and Weights and Biases accounts. To do so, run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We need to be logged into both Hugging Face. To do so, run:
```
See comment above.

Also i would remove W&B.

```shell
huggingface-cli login

> wandb login

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```

Finally, install Git LFS with:

```shell
sudo apt-get install git-lfs
```

> The final step is to launch the training! If you’re lucky enough to have 8 x A100 (80GB) GPUs to run this training, you can run the following command. Training should take around 45 minutes:

Reviewer 2: We could include a comment what the `config.yaml` is and where you can find it

Author: Done!

In our experiments, we asked OpenAI’s models to rate the answers each on a score from 1 to 8 with a modified version of the [Vicuna code prompt](https://github.com/lm-sys/FastChat/tree/main/fastchat/eval/table) comparing responses. In this case, the instruction tuned StarCoder model achieved an average score of 6.5 (standard deviation 1.0) to the base model’s 5.0 (standard deviation 1.5) when evaluated on GPT-3.5-Turbo. We definitely see that ChatGPT likes to return safer scores in the middle of the range.

When compared to GPT4, the results are way more polarizing, given the same completions and prompts!

At one point, there was a bug with our tokenization (the prompt was too long), so every response to ChatGPT was about a different question, and it wasn’t giving the response very low scores. Calibration of results across other results should always been used with LLM-based evaluation.

> ## Limitations and biases

Author: @natolambert can you please flesh out this section?
